# ma1805-interactiveproject
https://github.com/hayaturki05-pixel/ma1805-interactiveproject 

https://hayaturki05-pixel.github.io/ma1805-interactiveproject/

This is an interactive project based on digital surveillance that occurs on social media platforms as Instagram and TikTok. Any form of visible Palestine advocacy or alliance on posts and stories even simply, by interacting with those on certain accounts by liking, commenting, and reposting will lead to censorship – by a false and vague community guidelines violation or shadow banning to filter these views of content. I am Palestinian, which naturally instilled the urgency to further advocate and spread awareness on this issue that people and users can easily be manipulated and misled by from this forced shift of narrative and that is to create a scrolling insta feature to resemble the act of when someone is truly scrolling on insta’s feed – even TikTok as well on their For You page.

I implemented my own personal stories on instagram to contribute a sense of reality and credibility. Each story is an alternation between daily encountered stories in comparison to Palestine based ones to bring that differentiation in correspondence to adding a red bold stamp that screams censorship for significance in the circumstance. Additionally, two sounds of typical music that can be placed on Instagram stories and posts in the daily scroll to a sound of bombings to integrate the ones in Gaza where Palestinians endure this daily on the Palestine content scroll as you click on them. Yet, ensuring that they overally fit the dynamic and mood of the images utilized. This was to add connotation to the emotion intended to set from normal to compassionate and pressing.

A sample of this code was provided to me into which I further developed into those adaptations; the stamp, audios, and the use of my own insta stories. My previous gained knowledge in the mini projects, p5js references, and the open processing tech example on the DMCT Critical Making Wiki specifically the Inspiration Creative Coding segment supported me through these creations. They generated certainties in my design (placement, ratios/size, colour blends) and general aesthetics.

For example, the Sketch 0.9 Social Media by Robin de Zwart (https://openprocessing.org/sketch/549720) aligns accurately with the main notion I intended to apply, the scrolling feature and its placing. I just adjusted the speed to a slower pace as it was too fast to catch the image and stamp. This presented as a visual model that fit my vision and made it simpler to create. Another representation is the MultiTap Text by Rudiniki (https://openprocessing.org/sketch/2703303) which is a quite similar display to a smartphone and guided me to reference coordinates an estimated width and height when trying to scale the image in GIMP. This reduced the number of trial and error and the time spent as I have a direct visual to assist me on the scale. A third example is Cancelled Stamps by Ivan Rudnicki (https://openprocessing.org/sketch/2695278) which sparked the idea of including a stamp and with the attempt as mentioned below to be diagonally. 

Although, challenges were encountered through the making of this interactive project. Firstly, was the placement of the stamp, it took numerous attempts to see if I can have it be diagonally, however that consumed too much of my time that I came to the realization that it was not wise, realistic or a major necessary factor to implement given the time constraints. So, I moved on and stuck with a basic straight stamp with the label of "CENSORED" in capital for urgency. The other challenge was audios; they took several experimentations to eventually have it to play and when they should. Despite that, the main feature (the scroll of my insta stories) came more smoothly.

